---
layout: post
title: How Being an Attorney Helps Me as a Developer
---
As I've transitioned from practicing law back into software development, one of the things that has struck me is how the skills I learned in law school and honed as an attorney are transferable to software development. One of the most important things you learn in law school is how to think critically in order to analyze and solve problems. Law professors utilize what is referred to as the "Socratic Method" in their teaching, which is essentially asking you a number of questions in an attempt to draw out and challenge your presumptions about an argument or position. Ultimately, the goal is not necessarily to find the right answer, but to be able to analyze a situation from several different perspectives in order to decide what might be the best course of action for a given set of circumstances. After three years of this torture, I left law school with a mind that was trained to literally think differently than I had before I was an attorney. The critical thinking skills I learned have served me well as an attorney and I believe will be invaluable during my career as a developer.

As an attorney, I was regularly confronted with problems, such as the most tax-efficient way to complete a business transaction. To reach the best solution, I was forced to analyze all of the facts from the perspectives of the different parties to the transaction (e.g., the buyer and seller) and come up with a solution that was satisfactory to everyone involved. Any solution had to not only meet the needs of the parties but comply with the requirements of the relevant statutory framework, such as the Internal Revenue Code as well as a host of federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to business entities. If you think about it, it's not that different from the types of challenges that programmers face on a daily basis. Instead of clients you have users who have a particular problem they've asked you to solve. In order to do this, you analyze the facts of the situation and attempt to reach the best solution given the parameters and constraints (budgets, etc.) with which you are faced. All of this takes place within a given framework consisting of the development tools and methodologies at your disposal. At the end of the day, both attorneys and software developers are problem solvers; the primary difference is the tools they use to solve those problems. 

One of the most important things I learned as an attorney was that there is usually more than one way to solve a problem. Software development is often the same way. Ten developers may come up with ten different solutions to the same problem. That's not to say that any of them are necessarily wrong, but some solutions may be better than others depending on the particular circumstances. I think that learning to creatively solve problems as an attorney will make be a better developer.
