---
layout: post
title: Why I'm a Developer
---
My first job after graduating college was in the IT department of a large oil company. I was fortunate enough to work with smart people on projects with mult-million dollar budgets, primarily using the .NET framework and SQL Server. After a few years of doing that, I gave in to the desire I had to go to law school, and three years later obtained my law degree and started my career as a new attorney. I spent the next nine years practicing law in the areas of business law and estate planning, working for a few different firms along the way until I finally ventured out and started my own practice. There were a lot of challenges involved in opening a law practice, not the least of which was deciding which technologies to adopt for things such as practice management, billing and invoicing, and document automation. What I discovered during this process was that I still had a real passion for technology and the different ways it can be used to improve business processes and help people work more efficiently. That recurring passion eventually got the best of me and let me on a journey to get back in the game of software development. Having not developed anything for nine years, my initial challenge was to decide what languages and frameworks to learn and then find the best way to get a solid education in a short period of time. After doing some research, I decided to attend Bloc, a coding bootcamp that focuses on teaching HTML, CSS, javascript, and Ruby on Rails. After about a month in the program, I have been able to brush up on a lot of the skills that I had previously as well as go much deeper in an effort to take my skill set to the next level. I'm excited to move forward with this program and to get my career as a web developer back on track.
